>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>> People are basically going
to keep on to help uncover what
really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>> NARRATOR: And now, the host
of the nationally syndicated
"Coast to Coast AM" and Gaiam
TV bring you "Beyond Belief"
with George Noory.
>> GEORGE NOORY:
How's everybody?
And welcome to "Beyond Belief."
You know, everybody, at
one point in their life,
wants love, wants
a relationship.
Well our special guest
tonight on "Beyond Belief,"
Marla Martenson, author of
"Excuse Me, Your Soul Mate
is Waiting," she
is a matchmaker.
Let's welcome Marla Martenson.
Hey, Marla.
How are you?
>> MARLA MARTENSON: Hi, George.
>> NOORY: Good to see you.
>> MARTENSON: Hey, you too.
Thanks.
>> NOORY: Have a seat.
So what is a matchmaker?
>> MARTENSON: Oh, boy.
Well, a matchmaker
is someone who
will facilitate
finding your soul mate,
or a relationship, really.
It's, I get a lot
of male clients
who are CEOs of
companies, they're busy,
they're traveling around.
They don't want to
go on the internet.
hang out at a bar.
So they say, Marla, you take it.
I'll tell you what I want, and
you find me a great quality.
>> NOORY: And you go searching.
>> MARTENSON: And I search.
I'm a-- I'm a real-life cupid.
>> NOORY: Is it easy to
find the right person,
to match up the right people?
>> MARTENSON: You know,
I get people emailing me,
sometimes women who say, oh,
I'd love to be a matchmaker.
Can I work with you?
Or can you be my mentor?
It looks so easy,
and so much fun.
Well, it is fun.
It's not always easy, because
people have their lists,
you know, of what they
want in a perfect person.
And when they're paying for
someone to find it for them,
they really expect you
to deliver, you know?
>> NOORY: So if somebody comes
to you as a client and says,
I want to find the
ideal mate for me,
how many people do they normally
go through before they find
that person.
>> MARTENSON: You know,
well, something's very cute.
I have a new client
now, he's 73.
He is absolutely adorable.
And I matched him on his
first match, the other day,
and they went out to dinner.
He sent her flowers
on Valentine's Day.
And he calls me up, he
goes, you're a genius.
And I said, well, I love
starting my day like that.
So that was nice to hear,
and he was really happy.
Some people are extremely
picky and, George,
they might go through 25--
>> NOORY: No?
>> MARTENSON: 30 people.
They might keep-- I have a guy
who's been with me 10 years.
And he wants something
really specific.
And I don't think he's
probably going to find it.
>> NOORY: 10 years?
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, you know.
>> NOORY: And he
pays his fee, right?
>> MARTENSON: He does.
He does.
And he's a great guy.
>> NOORY: Maybe he doesn't
want a relationship.
Maybe he's just having fun.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
People, psychologists
and things,
I'm not a psychologist
or a psychiatrist.
I'm just a cupid.
But people that I
talk to say, people
like that, they have
blocks, and they really
don't want to find
a relationship
and they say they do.
So--
>> NOORY: And what percent of
the people that you match up
end up getting married?
>> MARTENSON: I always
get this question.
What's your success rate?
In the 10 years I've
been doing this,
I've had so many
marriages, I've gone
to a couple really great
weddings, babies being born.
But I don't have a number,
because sometimes people
will go off into
the sunset dating,
and then they get married
and I never know about it.
>> NOORY: But it does happen.
>> MARTENSON: Oh,
sure it happens.
Yeah.
>> NOORY: And they're happy.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
>> NOORY: And off they go.
>> MARTENSON: I have had a
couple people who've gotten
divorced and came back
for another round.
>> NOORY: Really?
>> MARTENSON: I mean this is--
>> NOORY: With
different people, right?
>> MARTENSON: With different
people, because we do have,
what?
A 50% divorce rate
in this country.
So of course it's
going to happen.
>> NOORY: And you know, I wanted
to ask you about that, Marla.
What is nowadays, with the
pressures of everything,
family, the economy,
everything, what's
it like to try to develop
a relationship today?
Because you know, I'm
thinking of my kids
and my grandchildren.
What's it going to
be like for them?
>> MARTENSON: Well, now it's
really changed from when I--
you know, when you
and I were growing up.
We had our mothers stayed
home, at least mine did.
Most mothers did.
You know, there was cookies in
the cookie jar, dinner at 6:00.
You know, it was really a great
thing to have your mom at home.
And kind of the
"Leave it To Beaver"
family and neighborhood.
But now, most
women have to work.
We're a partnership.
So I always say, my husband
and I, we're a team.
And we always say, you know, we
squabble or anything, we say,
remember we're a team, and
we're doing this together.
So that's what couples
really have to do,
nowadays, most couples.
>> NOORY: What about disasters?
We see things,
and I want to talk
to a lot about the
internet, Marla.
But we have a case
going where, I think,
a woman met somebody
on a dating service
and she got stabbed
by the individual.
What happened there?
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, that
was-- she's suing Match.com
because she had dated a man.
I think they only
went out a few times.
Known him maybe
eight days or so.
She broke it off because
she felt something was off.
And then, I believe, this
is just what I'm remembering
from what I've seen
on TV and the article,
that maybe a couple months
later, he comes to her home
and waits in her garage.
When she got home, stabbed
her multiple times.
Ended up in the
hospital, almost died.
He left her for dead,
thought she was dead.
And then he left and
went to another state
and killed another woman.
And so it was just devastating.
>> NOORY: And her contention is
they should be screening these
people?
But how do you screen them?
>> MARTENSON: You really can't.
You have to be-- they can't.
I mean, there's millions
of people on there, right?
So as a woman, not to
blame the victim at all,
this is horrible, but
he knew where she lived.
This was some-- I would
never take a man home.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> MARTENSON: I would suggest
not to, until you're really--
>> NOORY: You're really--
>> MARTENSON: --know him.
And especially if
you have children.
I wouldn't want them
to know where I lived.
>> NOORY: But so these
wacko things do happen?
>> MARTENSON: They can happen.
You have to be careful.
Because anybody can get
on there, on the internet.
But it's great, too.
I know people who have gotten
married from Match.com.
It's a great resource.
So there's good and bad.
>> NOORY: Well, like you say,
people are trying to avoid
going into bars and places
to meet other people.
I mean, with the social
networking the way it is now,
it's probably easy,
at least, to strike up
a conversation with people.
I think of the case of
the Notre Dame linebacker
who had this love affair going
with a fictitious person.
>> MARTENSON: Yes!
>> NOORY: How in the
heck does this happen?
>> MARTENSON: You
know, I-- I don't know.
And I thought, didn't
they Skype or something?
>> NOORY: They were
doing everything.
>> MARTENSON: You
know, I don't know.
And it went on
quite a long time.
>> NOORY: I mean I
don't know, to this day,
if he finally caught on, until
it was too late, or what.
But--
>> MARTENSON: And
he's a busy guy.
>> NOORY: Who would be on
the other end doing that?
I mean, it could have been--
it could have been a guy.
It could have been anybody.
>> MARTENSON: Could
have been a guy.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
And that's, you know, kind
of, and especially when
you're in the public, it's
pretty embarrassing, right?
That he was pretty
embarrassed by that.
>> NOORY: But with
today's relationships,
what are people looking for?
>> MARTENSON: Oh, well,
I think it's the same.
I hear the same for
men and from women.
Women are looking
for-- the first thing
that they ask for
is a sense of humor.
Love a guy with a-- if I
can make a woman laugh,
she can overlook--
he doesn't need
to look like Brad Pitt
or George Clooney, right?
Women, their
specifics tend to be,
they like a taller
man than themselves.
That goes back to
our caveman days,
where we want to be protected.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> MARTENSON: So height
always can be an issue.
Funny, and someone who
has something going on,
success, meaning they
can take care of a family
if they have one,
something like that.
And men, of course,
they're visual.
So it's looks first, right?
They want to know that they
like how she looks first.
And then they will love
a woman who's easygoing,
who can go with the flow,
also a sense of humor.
Yeah.
>> NOORY: Well, you know, I
had a friend of mine who took
a girl to a restaurant
first time they met.
And she ordered a
$500 bottle of wine.
>> MARTENSON: Oh, no.
First date?
>> NOORY: First date.
First date.
And he, of course, didn't
even know the price
until he got the bill.
And he was mortified.
Never dated her again.
Why would she do that to him?
>> MARTENSON: Well, this is--
was this in LA by any chance?
>> NOORY: It was in LA.
>> MARTENSON: And I'm a
matchmaker in Southern
California.
And there tends to be some high
maintenance ladies out there,
you know?
And the more
beautiful the woman,
they get a lot of
opportunities and they're
dating the wealthy guys.
And they think that
they're entitled to that.
And that's pretty sad,
because the truth is,
the guys aren't going to ask
them out for a second date.
>> NOORY: How important
is money, finances,
in a relationship?
Because we, as guys, we hear
all kinds of things about women,
that some of them may be
gold diggers, others are not.
But how important is that?
>> MARTENSON: Well it's, and
especially I see it in the big
cities, you know.
So in LA the women will
see the Red Carpet events.
They'll see the guys with the
private jets and the Bentleys
and everything.
They think, well I want that.
I deserve that.
So that can even be
a block for women,
when they're waiting for
a guy with a lot of money.
And now we have a recession
and everyone has got to work.
So it's a big deal.
And in a relationship
it's a big deal.
You've got to talk about those
things before you get married,
because you want to find out,
is your significant other,
is he in debt?
What do they think
about marriage?
What do you think about
saving for retirement?
These are big
things that come up,
problems in a marriage, if
you didn't discuss it first.
>> NOORY: Money
doesn't make you happy.
It makes it easy, but it
>> MARTENSON: It
doesn't make you happy.
You hear about people with a lot
of money and they're miserable.
>> NOORY: They're miserable.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
So it's really, you have to
be happy with yourself first,
before you get in
a relationship.
When you're happy
with your life,
you know, then you're happy with
however much money you have.
>> NOORY: Interesting.
All right.
Let's do a little
screening test.
Let's assume I come
to you as a client.
What do we do?
>> MARTENSON: All right.
>> NOORY: What's this
going to cost me?
>> MARTENSON: George, what's
your limit on your credit card?
Just kidding.
So what are you looking--
>> NOORY: Mine is maxed.
[LAUGHTER]
>> MARTENSON: All right.
So I would want to know
what your history has been.
Are you divorced?
Have you been married before?
If you're gotten to your age
now without ever being married,
why?
What are you looking for?
What age range are
you looking for?
Do you have kids?
Do you want kids?
So I need to know
all of these things,
because let's say,
you never had any kids
and you would like
to have a family.
So I'm going to have to
look for women in, probably,
in her '30s for you.
You know '40s is
not going to work.
>> NOORY: So you have
to go that in depth?
>> MARTENSON: I do, because
they want a life partner.
And those are the
considerations.
>> NOORY: And if guy
doesn't want a family?
>> MARTENSON: Right, so maybe
he'll date a woman who already
has children, or someone
who could go either way,
it doesn't matter.
>> NOORY: Huh!
OK.
So you screen him.
You ask him questions.
Do you put it in a computer?
>> MARTENSON: No,
you know, well,
I have some things
on the computer.
But I make a nice bio on him.
And I type that up.
And I have pictures, so that
when I send it to the woman,
it's all in a nice format.
>> NOORY: All right,
who's got the approval?
The guy over the girl, or
the girl over the client?
>> MARTENSON: Well, usually,
the men are my paying clients,
for the most part.
And I do send it to him first.
I said, you know, I
have this great lady.
And I give him a
bio and picture.
Would you be interested?
If he says yes, then
I'll send her his info.
If she says, yes, then
I give him her number.
>> NOORY: Have you ever sent
a bio out without the picture
first?
>> MARTENSON: I've tried,
because some people
aren't photogenic.
And I know that they're going
to like this person, right?
But guys are so visual, rarely
will they take my word for it.
And I'm like, that's
what you hired me for.
You know.
If you want to pick
people out of pictures,
go on the internet.
But they still want
to see the photos.
So if that makes them
comfortable, then I do that.
>> NOORY: Well, I've got friends
who would go on the dating
services years ago, and they
would go on a date and come
back and say, it was
not the same person.
It was a different picture.
And they're upset, or
something didn't work out.
Why would somebody do that?
>> MARTENSON: That
happened to me once.
Oh, before I met my
husband, I went on Love@AOL
because my cousin and my aunts
insisted, you've got to try it,
you've got to try it.
It was after I moved
back from Chicago.
I saw this guy,
he looked so cute,
with these lips that
were just full lips.
And I could just picture
myself kissing those lips.
>> NOORY: You look
for a guy's lips?
>> MARTENSON: Well, I just
liked his lips, all right?
I wasn't looking for
them, but I thought,
this guy looks really cute.
We spoke on the phone.
Something about his
voice and personality
didn't match that picture.
And then when I met
him, he had thin lips.
>> NOORY: Well maybe
his Botox wore off.
Or whether they put in there.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, deflated.
And then I said, you know what?
I said, you really don't
look like your picture.
And then he's, oh, well,
that was an old picture,
and my hair was lighter,
and brushing it off.
And about an hour into
it I said, I'm sorry,
but you really don't
look like your picture.
And he said, oh,
I'll admit, that I
put a model's picture up there.
>> NOORY: Unbelievable.
>> MARTENSON: And I said, why?
>> NOORY: It wasn't
him him, at all?
>> MARTENSON: No.
And he says,
because I'm a doctor
and I didn't want anybody at
the hospital to see my picture.
>> NOORY: Well, then
don't put a picture up.
>> MARTENSON: And I said, well,
if you're that embarrassed you
shouldn't be up there.
>> NOORY: Exactly.
>> MARTENSON: And he says, hey.
He says, Marla, some woman
actually got me get mad at me
when they find out.
Because I was pretty
nice about it.
>> NOORY: Let's take some
questions for you, OK?
Marla Martenson, the
Beverly Hills Matchmaker,
who's got a question for her?
I know somebody
wants to date, right?
Yes, sir.
>> AUDIENCE: Marla, what's
the process you used to pick
your husband?
>> MARTENSON: Oh, the
process that I used?
This was great, because
I met my husband
after I had-- so I had
been married prior.
And then I had
five years of being
single when I was in Chicago.
And then I came back to LA.
And when I was single, I
was dating all the bad boys,
I was always getting
my heart broken.
And I was used to
guys going out with me
and then never calling
again, which a lot of women
have experienced.
And so when I met him,
through a mutual friend,
we hit it off right away and
he seemed to really like me.
But in my mind I was like, maybe
he'll-- I figured he probably
won't ever call again.
So I said, if he calls
again, he calls again.
If he doesn't, he doesn't.
And I was really working
on myself at the time.
My father had passed
away, I was doing
a lot of healing and
working on my career
and my spiritual
side, and everything.
And it was interesting, because
he just kept calling every day.
And within three weeks
it was my birthday,
and he had a birthday
party for me.
And he was introducing me to
his friends as his girlfriend.
This is my girlfriend, Marla.
And using the words we
in our future-- well, we.
>> NOORY: You pick
up on those things.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, you pick
up on those things which other
guys never did.
So I knew that he
was really serious.
And he was just a great guy.
And he was dating a couple
of girls when he met me.
And my friend who introduced
us said, you know what, Marla?
He called those girls the
week he met you and told them
that he couldn't
see them anymore,
because met somewhat special.
>> NOORY: Wow.
That's good.
>> MARTENSON: So that's,
yeah, meant a lot.
>> NOORY: Well, that was also
a classy gesture on his part,
to let them know.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, to let them
know, instead of just never,
never calling again.
You see, guys?
>> NOORY: Most guys
would just fade away.
>> MARTENSON: Because
girls are always saying,
why do guys say they'll
call, then they never call?
So that's a big mind
thing for us women.
We're like, confused.
>> NOORY: I love that.
All right.
Let's take some more
questions for Marla.
How about from some of
the women in our audience?
Anybody have a question?
>> AUDIENCE: What do
you recommend for the 40
somethings?
It seems like an age group
that's kind of neglected.
>> MARTENSON: Oh, the
40's are fantastic.
Yeah, there's no
reason to be neglected.
Just get out there.
I have a lot of my men want
to date women in their 40's.
As long as you're open to
dating a little bit older than
yourself, if you'll
go up into the 50's.
I mean the men love the
women in their 40's.
We still look great.
We're smart.
We're confident.
We feel good in our own skin.
It's a really great time.
>> NOORY: You're more mature.
>> MARTENSON: More mature,
and just do a lot of work
on yourself.
I say, always keep
learning and expanding.
And keep yourself in shape.
Men are visual.
A lot of women don't
like to hear this,
but they are really visual.
And so if you can keep
yourself healthy, in shape,
and looking fresh.
Because that's when we
start to get a little gray.
And so, keep an updated look
and take care of yourself,
and there should be no problem.
>> NOORY: Marla, sometimes
we see mismatches
in relationships.
You know, people will look
at a couple and go, whoa!
What are they doing together?
>> MARTENSON: What's
she doing with him?
>> NOORY: And vice versa.
But how does that happen?
I mean, what's that attraction?
>> MARTENSON: Well, you know,
like for instance, women--
we love a guy's sense of humor.
Listen, if he is powerful in
his work, and he's intelligent
and he's funny, he could
look a little funny.
And you know, it's sexy.
So it could look
like a mismatch.
I mean, remember Dudley
Moore and Susan Anton?
>> NOORY: Right.
>> MARTENSON: Well,
he was adorable.
But he was like 5,
2 and she was 5,11.
>> NOORY: Yeah, she was huge.
>> MARTENSON: And people were
like, how does this work?
But it works,
because these people
are looking for qualities.
>> NOORY: That's because he had
a step stool wherever he went.
>> MARTENSON: He
had a step stool.
He had a little step ladder
he carried in his back pocket.
>> NOORY: How about one more?
One more question for Marla,
here, before we continue.
>> AUDIENCE: So
in Beverly Hills,
it can be a little materialistic
and/or like self-serving.
Do you ever have to
talk to your clients
and say, hey, a relationship is
about helping the other person
and doing right by them,
and not being selfish?
Have you had to kind of
correct them and say, hey,
your expectations
are unrealistic?
>> MARTENSON: I give
some great question.
I give some coaching.
I mean, I have had women come
in and say-- I had one woman,
she was probably in her 50's.
She comes in and she says, I
want to meet a billionaire.
And she was absolutely adamant.
I says, you know,
well, for one thing,
I don't have any
billionaires in my roster.
And so people will
get caught up in that,
because you see a
lot of it out there.
And so I have to remind
them, just because a man is
jet-setting around, these
guys have this lifestyle
where they can date the most
exquisite women in the world.
You see these guys are
dating the top models, right?
And so if you want to
compete with that, good luck.
And they change, you know,
they, what do you call it?
Go up.
>> NOORY: The guy's?
>> MARTENSON:
Yeah, you trade up.
>> NOORY: Upscale?
>> MARTENSON: Upscale, upgrade.
You know, they could
date whoever they want.
It's really, it would be a
really stressful situation,
I think, to date
a guy like that.
They're traveling a lot.
>> NOORY: Well, and they
might not be interested in one
person.
>> MARTENSON: That's
what I'm saying.
>> NOORY: They may not be
interested in a relationship.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
You want somebody who
is going to be there
when times are rough,
to grow old with.
What if you get sick?
What if you lose
an arm or a leg?
You know what I mean?
Are they going to leave
you if something happens?
So what I would
really look for are
qualities, characters
in a person.
Of course, you want
to be attracted.
Everybody does.
>> NOORY: Is the institution
of a relationship passe?
Or is it still there?
>> MARTENSON: You
know, it's still there.
I know a lot more people
are living together,
not getting married.
But I think, still,
women, we grew up
with that fairy tale idea.
When I was little
girl, I remember
reading about Cinderella.
And I used to even
pretend I was a princess.
Oh, Prince Charming's going
to ride up on his white horse.
And we still kind of
think that, today.
And so I think that's where
that, we call it "shallowness"
comes in, thinking
somebody's going
to swoop in and save
us or take care of us.
Or he's going to
look like a prince.
And it's just really,
it's really a fairy tale.
The romantic comedies, too.
They feed into that.
I always thought,
oh, the perfect guy
would be Tom Hanks
in "You've Got Mail."
You know?
But no, that's just
a scripted movie.
>> NOORY: OK.
So you showed us how
you screen your clients.
How do you screen the
prospective woman?
>> MARTENSON: Well,
the women the same way.
I meet the women, and I talk
to them, get to know them.
Over the years,
you know, the women
feel like they're friends,
that we're friends together.
And then I get feedback
after each date.
So if a woman
misbehaves, let's say,
she orders a $500 bottle
of wine on the first date.
>> NOORY: He tells
you about that.
>> MARTENSON: He
tells me about it.
And it's like adios, you know?
No more matches for you.
>> NOORY: Do you dump them?
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
I do.
That's inappropriate.
>> NOORY: OK.
>> MARTENSON: Or if somebody
does something like that,
I can coach them.
If they apologize and say,
OK, that was out of line.
You know, I might
match them again.
>> NOORY: But it's still
inside of them, isn't it?
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, if that's
their character, you know?
And I really care
about my clients.
I want them to find
the right person.
And if that's going on,
that's just such a sense
of entitlement.
And like you said,
it's just rude.
>> NOORY: Are people
scammed sometimes?
I mean, do you have someone
who comes in and tricks you,
or tries to?
Some guy who isn't
who he says he is?
>> MARTENSON: Thank goodness,
I haven't had that happen.
And a lot of times, I
go to my clients' homes.
I love to meet them
at their house,
because I like to see
how-- I can tell the women,
I've been to his home.
It's beautifully decorated.
Or he takes me to
lunch or dinner,
so I kind of see
how they interact.
And when they're paying that
kind of money for a matchmaker,
they pretty much are
who they say they are.
On the internet, it could
be a little more sketchy.
>> NOORY: Right,
I would think so.
A little bit later
on, we're going
to pick somebody out of the
audience and do an example.
>> MARTENSON: Oh, OK.
>> NOORY: That's
to-- that we do that.
What would you
recommend to people
right now who are not
going through matchmaking,
who might not be able to?
How do they meet
the right person?
What do they do?
>> MARTENSON: Well,
you know what I love?
I always talk about meetup.com.
And I know, I think,
in the states,
they are in pretty much
every state, meetup.com.
They have all sorts
of groups, Meet Ups,
where if you like hiking, if
you're a book club, into wine
tastings, want to
learn another language.
Anything you want to do,
they've got a Meet Up for it.
Singles groups, or you
could even start your own.
And you're going to be
out there meeting people
with your same interests.
So instead of going out
in the world thinking,
where's my soul mate, if
you're at a restaurant
and/or a bar and
somebody walks in--
instead of turning your head
like Linda Blair, you know?
Looking right, is that him?
Is he coming through the door?--
with that kind of desperation.
Just go out and live
your life and have fun.
Aways keep learning.
Put the word out to your
friends that you're available.
I met my husband
through a friend.
>> NOORY: Friends help.
>> MARTENSON: Friends help.
They got your back.
But sometimes friends--
>> NOORY: Uh-oh.
>> MARTENSON: Guys
will tell me this.
They say, they're matching me
up with their female friends,
but they're not the
look that I like.
Because they like them,
they think they're gorgeous.
But they're not my type.
So that's why sometimes
they come to me, as well.
>> NOORY: I have heard that
when a woman thinks of a guy
as a friend, it's the
kiss of death for him.
Is that true?
>> MARTENSON: You're a nice guy.
I used to get that.
And they say, oh, no.
Don't tell me I'm a nice guy.
That's the worst.
That means you have no interest.
I don't want to be a nice guy.
I want to be a bad boy.
Yeah.
Pretty much.
>> NOORY: Why do you see
this-- these mismatches,
where a woman is with
a guy who is a bad guy,
who might even hit her
and do these things.
And they hang in
these relationships.
>> MARTENSON: I know.
I hung in relationships
like that.
I was never hit, but the
verbal abuse, jealousy, things
like that.
In our 20's, we're basically
animals run on hormones, right?
I mean, we are dealing
with a lot of hormones.
And that will
affect our choices.
>> NOORY: Is it the
self-esteem, a low self-esteem?
>> MARTENSON: The low
self-esteem, and, you know,
women, we have that oxytocin
that's a bonding hormone,
where, when you make
love it attaches us.
So that's very tricky.
So when guys, keep
this in mind, if you
want to have sex with
a woman early on.
>> NOORY: Bring oxytocin.
>> MARTENSON: Well, that
oxytocin is going to be
released.
And she's going to bond to you.
And so if you just are
going to do a dump,
you know, love 'em
and leave em, that's
how you might get a stalker.
But we do tend to bond.
And even if they're
treating us bad,
we're just like,
coming back for more.
>> NOORY: Is there a
technique to dating?
Is there something that would
be good for tips for people?
>> MARTENSON: Well, go
out there and have fun.
When you go on a first
date, I say, arrive
on the first date
with the expectation
that you're going
to have a great time
and meet an interesting person.
Not with the expectation and
the burden on that person that,
are you my soul mate.
For example, if you're a
woman in your late 30's
and your clock is ticking,
and you're dying to have kids,
you don't ask the guy--
I've had women do this.
The first question,
do you want kids?
Because if you
don't want kids, I
don't even know why we're here.
>> NOORY: Oh, gosh.
>> MARTENSON: You know, that.
And the guy is
like, I don't even
know if I want a second date
with you, let alone father
your children.
>> NOORY: I did
go on a date once.
Once.
And the woman said, at
dinner, I hate animals.
>> MARTENSON: Oh!
>> NOORY: Now that was
a deal-breaker for me.
>> MARTENSON: That would
be a deal-breaker for me.
>> NOORY: You don't
have to own one,
because of the
lifestyle we all have.
But she said, I hate animals.
Dogs are stinky and
I don't like cats.
I actually paid the
dinner and left.
I said, you know, this is
not going to go anywhere.
If you hate an animal,
how do you treat humans?
>> MARTENSON: Exactly.
>> NOORY: So I moved on,
on something like that.
I had another friend
of mine, his father
had sold the business,
made $170 million,
a pharmaceutical company.
And set up trusts for
his sister and himself.
So this guy must have been
32 years old, had $40 million
in a trust account.
It was his.
And he drew on it every month.
Yet, was the worst for
relationships I have ever seen.
He would call me,
Marla, 10 times a day.
It got to the point where
I couldn't take it anymore.
And he flew to Los Angeles
one day, and he said,
I just want to have
a great weekend.
I just want to meet people.
As God is my judge, he
stayed at a nice hotel
and went upstairs and changed
his outfit, his clothes,
10 times.
He would come down and say,
do you like this shirt?
What about these pants?
To me!
Don't ask me.
And I'd say, they're fine.
Well, he would say,
well, I don't like it,
and he would go upstairs
and change again.
10 times.
>> MARTENSON: 10 times.
The 10 times man.
>> NOORY: And I looked
at this guy saying,
if he's got $40
million in the bank,
got to be one of the most
neurotic people I know.
Nice guy, but, I mean,
you can't fix that.
And he got married to
a girl, right away.
They got divorced in a year.
Got married again, had a baby.
She divorced him, right away.
So now he's got this huge
child support payment.
It just doesn't work for him.
Now if he came to you, with
his check in hand and said,
find me someone, you'd
have a tough time finding
somebody for him.
>> MARTENSON: Right.
And he could be-- I've had
guys, they're gorgeous.
They're tall.
You know, everything on paper,
tall, dark, handsome, and rich.
And then they have
these kind of issues.
>> NOORY: Well, he's not
handsome and he's not tall.
But he's got $40 million.
>> MARTENSON: Hey, he's a
lot taller when he's standing
on his wallet.
[LAUGHTER]
>> NOORY: Yes, he is.
But little-- look
how that got him.
>> MARTENSON: I do have some
wonderful dating coaches that
are on my team.
And I will send some of my
clients to a dating coach.
And I always offer
that in the package.
I'll say, you can take
advantage of that, if you want.
Or if I see some patterns
like this, I will say,
I would really like
you to see a coach.
>> NOORY: Have you ever had a
coach come back to you go, oh,
Marla, we got a
lot of work here.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
You know, George,
a lot of the men--
I have some wonderful clients.
I love my clients.
We're like a little
family, right?
But some people, the
reason they come to me
is because they have
some issues like this.
And they're not getting
the success on their own.
And just because you pay a
matchmaker-- I always say,
I'm not a magician,
I'm a matchmaker.
And I can only present
you with people,
I can get you the resources
and tools to help you,
but if you've got issues, you're
going to have to work on them.
>> NOORY: Well, here's a
difficult question for you.
Have you ever rejected
someone because you
knew there's nothing
you could do for them?
And there they are
with their check,
I mean, whatever you
charged as a fee.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
I keep a small list of people
I really want to work with,
and feel that I can help.
If I don't think I can match
them, I won't take them.
Because otherwise, they're
going to want their money back.
Or they'll be frustrated.
Or I won't be able to
sleep at night, right?
So I had a man call me, he
was in his late 60's, and he
wanted to date women 25 to 33.
And I said, I'm sorry,
I don't do that.
The women that I have
wouldn't date your age,
unless they were, you know, a
gold digger or something else.
And so that's not what I do.
So I turned him down.
Yeah.
>> NOORY: Good.
Good.
What has been, for you,
the most satisfying aspect
of what you do?
>> MARTENSON: Well, when
people get married, of course,
you know.
And I went to just a
lovely wedding once,
and they had a rose
sitting on the chair for me
when I was watching
the ceremony.
When I got back to my
seat there's a gift.
And they brought me
up and introduced
me, a champagne toast.
And you know, it was
just, they were so happy.
And so that's the
most rewarding part.
>> NOORY: It's got
some magic to it.
>> MARTENSON: It's
got some magic to it.
And I'm a people person.
I love people.
So just meeting all
these different kinds
of people with different
jobs and lifestyles
and different parts of
the, sometimes, country,
and sometimes world.
I have had clients
down in Mexico.
So it's really fun.
A guy in Hawaii.
>> NOORY: You're an author.
You're a very
accomplished author.
What's your latest book?
>> MARTENSON: My latest book--
>> NOORY: Excuse me.
>> MARTENSON: Well, "Excuse
Me, Your Soul Mate is Waiting"
is my first book.
Then I had "Good
Date, Bad Date."
And then I did two memoirs,
"Diary of a Beverly Hills
Matchmaker," and the sequel,
"Hearts on the Line."
So yeah, "Excuse
Me, Your Soul Mate.
is Waiting" has
been a great book.
It incorporates a
lot of attraction
with finding your soul mate.
>> NOORY: Tell me about
the Law of Attraction.
What is that?
>> MARTENSON: Oh, I'm a
big Law of Attraction girl.
OK.
That's how I-- I co-create
everything in my life
with the universe.
It's so much fun.
And I'm sure a lot
of your viewers,
if they're watching Gaiam
TV, they're into that.
But it's really what you
think about you bring about.
It's raising your vibration to
match what you're looking for.
So of course, you
don't want to think
about what you don't want.
So when a woman has been
dating, maybe divorced,
maybe her husband
cheated on her,
so she's got these negative
ideas about dating, about men,
and upset about not
finding the right person.
Even though she's
out there looking,
but when you have that mindset,
you're not going to find it.
So once you switch
that switch and look
forward to meeting that person,
feeling good, being happy,
that's when you're going
to meet the right person.
>> NOORY: It happens.
>> MARTENSON: Yes.
And it will happen, it will.
>> NOORY: And how difficult is
it to keep that relationship
going, in this era
where things happen?
And we've all gone
through those things.
>> MARTENSON: We
have to realize that,
now that we're partners
and we're both working--
my husband and I both work.
We both have to split
the household chores.
We have a dog,
there's things to do.
And we can't just let it
fall on the other person.
And have compassion
for that other person.
Because we're working hard.
We've got a lot to do.
And it's easy to just snip
at each other and argue.
So of course, you're
going to have arguments.
But my husband always says, he
learned from somebody, the best
way to have a great marriage
is to have a short memory.
>> NOORY: Yeah.
He' right.
He's right.
>> MARTENSON: And
as we get older,
that's not so hard to do.
>> NOORY: In this era
of social networking,
people will text each
other more than they talk.
>> MARTENSON: Oh, yes.
>> NOORY: People
will be on Facebook.
Things will be misunderstood.
I've gone to dinner
sometimes, as a matter
of fact, where
your husband plays
the piano in Beverly Hills.
And he's a good piano
player, by the way.
And I have seen
couples of two or four
sending text messages to
people, all four of them
have their phones.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
>> NOORY: And not one of them
is talking to each other.
Not one.
And they're just sending
their text messages.
What has that done
to relationships?
>> MARTENSON: Well,
even myself, I'm guilty.
I mean, my husband
will get mad at me,
because I'm kind of
working seven days a week.
My clients can email
me or text me any time.
You know, I work
from my home office.
I'm very boutique.
And we'll be out to breakfast--
every Sunday morning,
we go for our Mexican breakfast,
and that's our time together.
We have a great Mexican
place in the Valley we go to.
And I'll be on my phone
answering something.
He's like, honey,
this is our breakfast.
>> NOORY: Put the phone away!
>> MARTENSON: Put that away.
Put that down.
And I'm like, then I
realize, that's pretty rude.
>> NOORY: He's right.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, he's right.
And I'm sorry, honey.
>> NOORY: But you're addicted.
You know, you're doing
your work and stuff.
>> MARTENSON: It's just so--
and I was doing it with some
friends this weekend.
And I thought this is
not, you know, right.
We went out dancing.
And I'm like, I'm
texting my clients.
And this is, put it
down and go dance!
>> NOORY: Yeah,
have a good time.
>> MARTENSON: But it
can run first dates.
I've had people-- you cannot
understand the tone somebody
has, or if somebody
tells a joke in the text,
you might get it wrong.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> MARTENSON: And I've had
people not meet because of it.
I have had people-- texts not
go through, they never met.
Or guys, especially
the younger guys
in their 20's or 30's,
they're so into texting,
they'll make their first contact
with a women through a text.
You know what?
>> NOORY: It's a sign
of the the times.
>> MARTENSON: Pick up the phone.
>> NOORY: They don't
do that anymore.
>> MARTENSON: We don't do it.
We're all hiding behind
emails and texts.
>> NOORY: Well, I've
got to tell you,
in what I do with "Coast
to Coast" for example,
and then my personal life.
If I talked to
everyone who sends me
a text message during the
day, I would get nothing done.
The phone would be
ringing constantly.
And I was thinking
just a few days ago,
what life was like
before cellphones.
Before we even had the
big Motorola ones, right?
>> MARTENSON: I know.
>> NOORY: And you know what?
We got by
>> MARTENSON: We got along.
We got by.
>> NOORY: We did
what we had to do.
>> MARTENSON: We had
answering machines.
>> NOORY: We got back to
our office and took care
of our messages and
did what we had to do.
But nowadays, you
just try, one day,
keep your cell phone at home.
You feel naked.
>> MARTENSON: George,
when I'm out in the world,
sometimes I'll look
on the street and see,
everybody's down like this,
or like this, on the street.
I mean, every
other-- every person.
>> NOORY: In Nevada, they're
thinking of passing a law which
would make it illegal to
send text messaging or to use
your smartphone
while you're walking.
Because people will walk on--
they'll walk on the street
and get hit by a car,
because they're not looking.
It's crazy.
>> MARTENSON: And trip.
>> NOORY: So so
the social network,
though it has speeded things
up, in terms of information--
I know when Michael
Jackson died,
the world knew
about it in minutes,
through social networking--
it also can destroy
a relationship, can't it?
>> MARTENSON: It can.
And it just disconnects
us from our relationships.
On the other hand,
there's things
like Skype, which,
I love, because I
have girlfriends in France.
I have girlfriends in
Canada and Chicago.
We sit there with
our cup of coffee
like we're sitting
in the living room
together, looking at
each other, on Skype.
And so that's just awesome.
So technology has the
good and bad sides.
>> NOORY: Facebook
creates problems, as well.
>> MARTENSON: People are
on there, constantly.
>> NOORY: Constantly,
they'll get messages.
A married couple will see
the messages of someone
who put something on
someone else's Facebook.
And then--
>> MARTENSON: Or you
look at the status,
the relationship status,
if you're dating someone.
Oh no, he's still single.
>> NOORY: They haven't
changed it yet.
>> MARTENSON: Still
hasn't changed the status.
>> NOORY: Exactly.
>> MARTENSON: And then
you've got to block people.
>> NOORY: That happens.
>> MARTENSON: Unfriend them.
>> NOORY: So do
away with that too.
>> MARTENSON: Then
you're all hurt.
I was unfriended.
>> NOORY: So do you deal with
that stuff, social networking?
>> MARTENSON: Social
networking, yeah.
Well, sometimes, see, so I'm
trying to match somebody,
and then they'll go do
their investigating and look
somebody up on Facebook or
try to see more pictures.
And say, oh, no,
I'm not-- you know,
they're not my type, after all.
And don't do that!
You've got to trust me.
I know these people.
>> NOORY: Go.
It's only a date, right?
>> MARTENSON: You paid
me, let me do my job.
Yes, go.
>> NOORY: How many dates do you
give someone for whatever fee
they end up giving you?
>> MARTENSON: Well, usually
someone will join for a year.
And I give one to
two matches a month.
Sometimes, if somebody
is really easy to match,
like they're just easier, let's
say, tall, dark, and handsome,
and every woman would
want to meet him.
I'll match him a lot
more, just because--
>> NOORY: And how do you
solicit the women for him?
>> MARTENSON: Well, I
have a large database.
I've been doing it a long time.
So I have over 300
women in the database.
And then i have recruiters.
I have other matchmakers
I network with.
The women in my database,
if they like my service,
they send their friends.
And so there's women coming
to me every week, new women.
>> NOORY: Are there any
women who are frustrated,
who say to you, stop
sending me these guys?
Or anything like that?
>> MARTENSON: No, but sometimes
they'll take a little break.
I had one woman
tell my recruiter,
she says-- I set her
up with a great guy.
Texting, they messed
up, didn't meet.
And then I emailed my recruiter.
I said, what's going
on with this girl?
And she says, oh,
I just called her
and she said that
God told her that she
shouldn't be dating right now.
>> NOORY: Ooh.
>> MARTENSON: I said, better
listen to that big man
upstairs.
>> NOORY: If that's
what he's saying.
>> MARTENSON: If that's what
he's saying, take a break.
>> NOORY: If that's what
he's saying, exactly.
What advice would
you give the people
who want to meet someone.
They might not
have the resources
to go through a
matchmaker, like yourself.
What they do?
>> MARTENSON: Well, you can
get my book, "Excuse Me,
Your Soul Mate is Waiting,"
and that will take you right
through it.
And you don't need to
go through a matchmaker.
A matchmaker is not for
everyone, it really isn't.
But there are the online sites.
There are the meetup.coms.
Get out there.
If you like to dance, go to a
swing dance, or a salsa dance.
When I was living in
Chicago, and I was single,
I got into a rut.
I would go to work.
Then I would want to come home
and watch movies with my dog.
And one of my girlfriends said,
Marla, every Wednesday night
I'm taking you out.
We're going to go to this
beautiful champagne bar.
They had a beautiful
one up on Rush Street.
And we went out
there every week.
And I did meet a guy.
I dated him for like five
months, just to get out.
And it wasn't like
prowling around.
It was like going out for a
lovely drink and socializing.
And it was great.
>> NOORY: Are there some
people who just don't need
a relationship?
Can they get by?
>> MARTENSON: Oh, yeah.
>> NOORY: On there
own, single forever?
>> MARTENSON: Humans, we're
social creatures and we want
relationships.
But I think if you have great
friends, you have maybe a pet.
You know, you and I
are animal people.
I mean, my dog, I can get all
the hugs and kisses from my dog
that I need, right?
But we don't have to be
in a romantic relationship
every minute of our lives.
You know, people always
feel that, like, I
need to be in a relationship.
I think it's great to take
a break, even a few years.
>> NOORY: I only have
one sad pet story.
>> MARTENSON: Oh.
>> NOORY: Sad pet story.
When I was a kid, I had
a little baby turtle.
In those days, they sold
turtles at the stores.
And they don't anymore,
because of salmonella.
Well, you know what's funny?
We never got salmonella.
>> MARTENSON: We never
got it back then.
>> NOORY: You know, we did all
these horrendous, germy things,
and never got a disease.
So I bought my little tiny,
it was a slider turtle,
tiny little green thing.
And I must have been
about eight years old
and I'm playing with him.
And he bit me.
And you know, they don't have
teeth, but he wouldn't let go.
And I'm looking at this turtle
on the end of my finger.
And I'm eight years
old, and I'm screaming.
It didn't hurt, but it
just didn't look right.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
>> NOORY: And I didn't
know what to do with him.
So I'm waving my hand, you know?
And I flung him.
And he, unfortunately,
let go and hit the wall.
And that was it for him.
That's my sad story.
>> MARTENSON: I have
a sad turtle story.
When I was four years old, my
little brother was like one.
And I had two of those
little slider turtles,
with the little island.
You know, with the
little palm tree.
>> NOORY: With a
plastic palm tree.
>> MARTENSON: And I loved
those little turtles.
And then my brother
was on a walker.
And he would walk around.
He went over to
one of the turtles,
picked it up and bit
its leg, and it died.
And my mom, says--
>> NOORY: I used
to breed hamsters.
I was a boy scientist.
I was into chemistry, rocketry,
the bizarre, the paranormal,
that's what happened to me.
I decided I wanted
to breed hamsters.
So I did it right.
I had it down to the moment
the little tiny hamster
got pregnant.
14 days later, she
had her little litter.
It was amazing.
I even built them a cage.
I made one mistake.
I didn't realize how
small the hamsters
were when they were born.
And so I built it
with the screen bigger
than the hamsters.
The mother couldn't get out,
but the little babies could.
And my father,
God rest his soul,
would always go downstairs.
And that was where he would
shave and take his shower
and everything else
before he went to work.
And one morning, I
heard him screaming.
Screaming.
He had smashed baby hamsters
on the bottom of his foot.
>> MARTENSON: Oh!
>> NOORY: They had crawled out.
And I don't know
why we're talking
about this, when we're
talking about dating.
>> MARTENSON: You are--
>> NOORY: But you know,
things like that happen.
Anyways, let's take some
questions for Marla.
>> MARTENSON: No
more sad stories.
>> NOORY: That's right.
Who's got some more?
We've got a couple
more questions
that we need from you.
There you go, ma'am.
>> AUDIENCE: How problematic do
you find people's self-esteem
issues to be in matching
them with other people?
Because it feels like they would
have unrealistic expectations
and needs that would hinder
their finding the right person.
>> MARTENSON: Self-esteem
is a big issue,
because a lot of people,
well, especially women,
we tend to look for a guy
to complete us or save us.
We women value ourselves
based on our relationships.
And men get their
self-esteem from their work,
from their careers.
So it plays a lot into it.
That's why I always
say, work on yourself.
Do as much introspection and
work on yourself as you can.
But you want to be a
whole, complete person,
happy with yourself, before
you partner with somebody else.
Two people who are broken,
not happy with themselves,
coming together, that's
a recipe for disaster.
And that's why we
have a lot of divorce.
>> NOORY: Can you fix a
situation that may have been
good, and that fell apart and
then you try to work it out,
and does it work?
Can you fix mistakes?
>> MARTENSON: Oh, absolutely.
You know, we all mess
up in relationships.
We argue.
We have difficulties.
If you're both willing to work
on it, and there's counseling,
there are books, there's
things you can do.
I think it's worth-- unless
you're getting beat up,
or cheated on, or
somebody, right?
I think people should put
a little effort into it.
It's not just magic.
Like, oh I found my soul mate.
Everything is going
to be perfect.
We do everything the same.
We cut our peas, you know,
the carrots the same.
We both eat peas one at a time.
We like the same music.
It's going to be a dream.
I found my soul mate, no.
A soul mate might
be a person who
has to show you some
parts of yourself
that you need to work on.
With my husband, I have
needed to work on patience.
There's some things that I--
>> NOORY: I mean, do
you fight with him?
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, he's Latin.
Hey, you know.
He gets a little feisty.
>> NOORY: You don't?
>> MARTENSON: Well, no.
Never.
But the thing is, when
we do have a fight,
and I would say more of like
a squabble, an argument,
a disagreement, what's
really interesting about us.
It's like 20 minutes later,
it's like it never happened.
We don't dwell on it.
We don't bring it up later.
>> NOORY: You
don't have grudges.
Yeah.
>> MARTENSON: No, we
don't keep grudges.
We have to kind of hash it out.
And he does have more
of that kind of uppity.
>> NOORY: He's spontaneous.
>> MARTENSON: He's passionate.
He's very kind of fiery.
But then he's very sweet.
So it works out.
And hey, it's not boring.
>> NOORY: All right.
Let's take some more questions.
How about from some of
you single folks out there
in the audience?
>> AUDIENCE: Should
we, at some point,
lower our expectations
as we get older?
>> MARTENSON: Oh,
that's a good one.
I see some people clapping
over here, for that one.
You know, I think, as we
get older we kind of mature
and realize, people,
we're all going to age.
We'll get a little
gray or lose some hair,
maybe get a little
paunch, or whatever.
And that is not as important.
It's interesting, because when
I-- the women in their 20's,
they still want
a really hot guy.
You know, it's all
looks and stuff.
Then in the 30's, they're
easing up a little bit.
They still want a
nice looking guy,
but it's like, OK, he
doesn't have to-- he can be,
maybe, a little shorter
than I wanted, or whatever.
Then when they get
their 40's they're like,
I just want a nice guy with
some hair and his own teeth.
>> NOORY: The compromise begins.
>> MARTENSON: The compromise.
It's more about
qualities and character
than looks, as we get
a little bit older.
>> NOORY: And into
your 50's or 60's?
>> MARTENSON: Yeah,
you want companionship,
a little bit more than when--
it does change than we are
in our 20's.
And I don't think it's--
what did she call it?
Compromise?
>> NOORY: Compromising?
>> MARTENSON: Compromising,
or lowering your expectations.
Actually, they might be a
little higher, in some ways.
Because like you
were talking about,
women will go with the
bad boys and be maybe
verbally abused, or
physically abused.
Well, when we get
older, we're not
willing to put up with that.
So we're not lowering
our expectations.
But we might be compromising
on some other things.
>> NOORY: Marla, when a spouse
dies, the other one, sometimes,
goes pretty close,
pretty close to them.
>> MARTENSON:
Especially the men.
>> NOORY: What is that?
Can you literally die
of a broken heart?
>> MARTENSON: Absolutely.
Especially, there's
couples that are
married 60 years, 50, 60 years.
And that is so sad.
And I've had some come in
after that has happened.
And it's interesting,
because women,
let's say, after a
divorce or a spouse dies,
women will go work
on themselves.
They'll take a year off.
They'll go to a yoga retreat,
or read a lot of books.
Men, a lot of times,
they want-- they're
getting into a
relationship right away.
Because they just
can't be alone.
The men, when a man's been
married or in a relationship,
they tend to really
like that, and thrive.
It's said that men, married men,
live longer than single men.
However, I think I read that
married women live less.
>> NOORY: Really?
>> MARTENSON: Don't let this--
>> NOORY: How about one more
question from the audience?
Who's got one?
>> AUDIENCE: Well, I've
been single my whole life,
I've never been married.
And I'm 57 years old.
So--
>> MARTENSON: Wow!
>> NOORY: Whoa.
>> MARTENSON: Whoa!
>> AUDIENCE: I know.
>> NOORY: Ever come close?
>> AUDIENCE: No.
>> MARTENSON: And why
do you think that is?
>> AUDIENCE: Well, I have lots
of reasons why I think it is.
But I've become-- have gotten
to this place in my life
where I'm pretty
comfortable with the fact.
I also, when people say, why
have you never been married?
My answer is, well,
the great part
is, I've also never
been divorced.
So I have no
baggage left behind.
And I've got pretty
good relationships
with ex-boyfriends.
But it is-- where do, you know
40's, you think 40's are hard.
Be 57 and try to meet someone.
>> MARTENSON: Well, it
sounds like you've had a lot
of boyfriends and relationships.
What is it about you?
Would you think it maybe was
your career, your personality,
or something, that was really
keeping that from happening?
And did you want it to happen?
>> AUDIENCE: Well, as I've
done my own introspection,
I think one reason has been,
I never wanted children.
I was clear on that
from my whole life.
I was just not maternal.
So I don't think I was really
looking for a potential father,
which usually comes when
you're looking for husbands.
And I tended to date a lot
of long haired musicians.
>> NOORY: That explains it.
>> AUDIENCE: They were hot.
And uh--
>> MARTENSON: The
bad boys, right?
>> AUDIENCE: Aw,
they weren't bad.
They were really good musicians.
And then as I-- I also, I have
a very big personality, myself.
And I'm very outgoing
and laugh really loud.
I was giggling, but you
know, I could have--
>> MARTENSON: You toned it down?
>> AUDIENCE: I toned it down.
So that can-- I think I've
intimidated a lot of men.
>> MARTENSON: OK.
>> AUDIENCE: And
that's the hard part.
I'd like to find a man who
was so comfortable in himself
that he's proud of that.
Yeah, that woman over there
laughing really big and loud
and really funny
is, she's with me.
>> NOORY: Well, I'll tell
you what we're going to do.
We're going to take this break.
But I want Marla to do
a love reading on you
when we come back
on "Beyond Belief."
Don't go away.
[APPLAUSE]
>> NOORY: And welcome back to
"Beyond Belief" with Marla,
Martenson.
And , of course, we grabbed
Robin from the audience
to bring her up.
She's 57 years old.
Has never been married.
What's wrong with you?
>> AUDIENCE: I know it.
What's wrong?
>> NOORY: So what do you do?
>> MARTENSON: Well, do
you want to get married?
>> AUDIENCE: Good question.
Uh, yes and no.
I'm very-- I've gotten
very comfortable
in living my own life,
living in my own space.
I'm very independent.
But now, as I'm
getting older, I'd
like to get married
for different reasons
than when I used to wish
for when I was young.
I would like companionship.
I would like, it
would be easier for me
to retire if I had a partner.
And I certainly want to
travel a lot when I retire.
And that would also be a lot
easier with a life partner.
>> MARTENSON: It would be fun to
have somebody to do that with,
right?
Now when you were younger,
you didn't want kids.
So what were your reasons for
wanting to get married then?
>> AUDIENCE: I think it was just
the whole romantic notion that
we, as girls, want.
And I wanted the honeymoon.
>> MARTENSON: The white dress.
>> AUDIENCE: I
wanted the wedding.
I wanted the reception.
You know, I just sort of
visualized the whole thing.
And as I watched
girlfriend after girlfriend
after girlfriend get married.
And I'm bridesmaid after
bridesmaid after bridesmaid,
it's like ooh.
>> MARTENSON: Ooh, did you
ever catch the bouquet?
>> AUDIENCE: Probably.
>> MARTENSON: So are
you dating much now?
>> AUDIENCE: I date, yeah.
Yeah.
And I've definitely
lowered my expectations.
>> MARTENSON: So now-- you
said you used to date the rock
and roll, the
musicians, and stuff.
Are you still keeping with that?
Are you still-- I mean,
you seem like, 57,
you're really like
cute and fashionable.
And you just don't-- you're
just young, young spirit.
>> AUDIENCE: Rock and roll
is still my greatest passion.
>> MARTENSON: Oh, it is?
>> AUDIENCE: I live and breathe
for rock and roll music.
So it's very important
for me to meet
someone who also loves music.
I go dancing a lot.
I go out to hear
live music a lot.
So that's an
important part for me.
But now it's more important
for me that they have a job.
>> MARTENSON: And
have you found that,
even in the 40's and 50's that
guys with no jobs, that you--
are you one of those women
that kind of may be attracted
to guys, where you're
going to fix them?
>> AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah.
Oh, no.
I've dated lots of projects.
>> MARTENSON: Lots of projects.
OK.
>> NOORY: Would
you support a guy?
>> AUDIENCE: Uh, I have.
And I don't want to do that.
>> NOORY: You have?
>> AUDIENCE: Yes.
>> MARTENSON: Interesting.
>> NOORY: Like, they
didn't work, and you did?
>> AUDIENCE: I had one man
live with me for a year,
who did not work.
>> NOORY: Wow.
Why did you do that?
>> AUDIENCE: Uh, I was in love.
>> MARTENSON: In love.
>> AUDIENCE: I was in love.
And, you know, I
wouldn't do it again.
Every relationship you've
got to learn something
that you don't want to repeat.
>> NOORY: Are there a lot of
guys out there that do that?
They're looking for women
to prey on, basically?
>> MARTENSON: Well,
it's interesting.
I don't know if you've
experienced this,
or if you've used online dating.
But a lot of women will say, I'm
getting hit on by young guys,
like in their 20's, and
I'm in my 40's or 50's.
And you wonder, are they just
looking for a sugar mama?
Or what's their
reasoning on that.
Have you experienced that?
>> AUDIENCE: Well, I have.
Because I have
done online dating.
And the last time I did it, I
made sure I wrote in my bio,
I date age appropriately.
I am not a cougar.
>> MARTENSON: Right.
>> AUDIENCE: While the of
thought of hooking up with
a young, hot male body
is attractive, it's not--
what do you talk about?
>> MARTENSON: Right.
>> AUDIENCE: I want to meet
someone who I can talk about
the TV shows I grew up watching.
And that, do you remember seeing
the Beatles on Ed Sullivan?
Because I do.
>> MARTENSON: Well, I think
you're getting out there,
dancing, the meetup.coms, I
think, are going to be great,
too, because you're going to
find people who love to do what
you do.
And just, you probably have
a great network of friends.
>> AUDIENCE: I do.
Like I said, the
hardest part has
been that not everyone-- my
big personality might attract.
But it can be a real
deterrent to a lot of men.
Because I'm gaining more
focus than they are.
>> MARTENSON: Mm, hm.
>> AUDIENCE: I mean,
you must be lucky,
because you've got
this huge career,
but you also have a
husband who is a musician.
And so--
>> NOORY: Don't point
at me when you say that.
>> AUDIENCE: Well,
you brought it up.
>> NOORY: I'm not the husband.
>> AUDIENCE: No, no.
>> NOORY: Oh, all right.
>> AUDIENCE: No, but
you brought it up,
that she has a husband who is
a really good piano player.
So he must have
his own fan base.
>> MARTENSON: He has
And then we both want to
kind of be in the spotlight.
Because I write books, and I'm
out there and I'm on shows.
And then he's doing his show.
So we both kind
of are out there.
And that kind of balance is--
>> NOORY: Well, that's kind of
attractive to a relationship.
>> MARTENSON: That is.
And luckily, he's
not intimidated
that I'm out there doing things.
And I'm not jealous.
People will say,
oh, do women try
hit on your husband at
the piano bar, and stuff?
And it's so cute, because
he loves telling a women,
I'm happily married.
But here's my wife's
card, she's a matchmaker.
>> AUDIENCE: Awesome.
>> MARTENSON: So
that's kind of cute.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah, see I need
to meet somebody who's really,
really comfortable.
>> MARTENSON: Who is
secure and comfortable.
>> AUDIENCE: And
thrilled to be with me.
>> MARTENSON: Right.
>> AUDIENCE: Because I
can't tone down who I am.
>> MARTENSON: You can't change.
You can't change for somebody.
>> NOORY: People don't change.
>> MARTENSON:
People don't change.
>> NOORY: This has been
you all your life, right?
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> MARTENSON: Maybe
on a first date,
you want to let them talk
a little more, though,
just tone it down.
You can still be funny,
but let them really
kind of take the spotlight.
And ask them more
questions, than you talk.
And then that might help.
>> AUDIENCE: I do try to
be really good listener.
So I do try.
>> MARTENSON: A lot of feedback
I get on dates, George,
after dates they'll say, all the
other person did was talk about
themself.
And both men and women
will tell me that.
And I'm like, well, who is it?
You know if you're both
all talking about yourself.
But people do need to listen.
And it could be from nerves,
where you're going on and on.
Or going on and on about
the ex or your problems.
Now that's not
something that's good.
It's not a therapy
session, it's just
a date to see if you want
get to a second date.
>> NOORY: Now where would
someone like Robin go to want
to meet people?
Would she sign up with someone
like you, as, not as a client,
but as--
>> MARTENSON: To
be in the database?
That would be great.
You know, you're
a gorgeous woman.
You sign up with a
matchmaking service.
Get online, like you said
you have tried online.
You go out dancing.
Get on meetup.com.
And just keep living your life.
And you're going to
attract the right person,
because now you're kind of more
in line and in tune with what
you do want and you don't want.
You're not going to be
attracting these projects
anymore.
>> AUDIENCE: Right.
But now what do you think
about the term deal-breaker?
Because I've got a bunch.
But I'm--
>> NOORY: Maybe
you have too many.
>> MARTENSON: Maybe
too many, yes.
>> AUDIENCE: Well,
that's my concern.
Should I put them out
there and let them know,
these are my deal-breakers.
>> MARTENSON: You'll
find that out.
>> NOORY: Not right away.
>> MARTENSON: No, you'll
find it out in conversation.
Or if you're online,
they'll be in their bios.
Because you, let's
say, a deal-breaker
maybe is no smokers.
>> AUDIENCE: Right, no smoking.
>> NOORY: Don't pick
your nose at dinner.
>> AUDIENCE: Well, you know,
but should you put that
in your bio?
Because my theory is, I
put it out there and say,
these are the things that
are really important to me,
so I don't waste my
time or their time.
>> MARTENSON: Yes.
Put it in your bio.
>> AUDIENCE: Go on dates, so--
>> NOORY: Well, give
us some more examples.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, what
are some of your other
deal-breakers?
>> AUDIENCE: Well,
like, for my politics.
>> NOORY: What, you mean,
you wouldn't date a guy--
let's assume, you're a Democrat.
>> AUDIENCE: Ugh!
My God!
>> NOORY: How did I guess that?
>> AUDIENCE: In Boulder, what?
>> NOORY: You wouldn't
date a guy because he was
conservative?
>> AUDIENCE: It would be hard.
>> NOORY: You're kidding me?
>> AUDIENCE: No.
I don't want to argue.
>> NOORY: That's why you're
not married and you're 57.
So why?
>> MARTENSON: Here we go.
Problem solved.
>> AUDIENCE: What, are all
older men conservative?
>> NOORY: No, not necessarily.
But why do you have to
date a guy or a woman who
has your same
political persuasion?
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
You must like talking about it.
>> AUDIENCE: I do.
And it's--
>> NOORY: So that
is a deal-breaker.
>> MARTENSON: That's
a deal-breaker.
>> AUDIENCE: It is, yeah.
>> MARTENSON: So no smoking,
political, what else?
>> NOORY: What if
he's a libertarian?
Does that work?
>> AUDIENCE: Oh, they're
crazier than Republicans.
Oh, God.
>> MARTENSON: Oh, no!
>> AUDIENCE: Oh, nodbody
knows my last name.
OK.
No, politics is,
it's, well, you know,
my politics reflects my values.
>> NOORY: That's
amazing, though,
that you would dump a guy
because he didn't have
the same--
>> AUDIENCE: No, I
wouldn't dump him.
I just wouldn't go out.
>> MARTENSON: You wouldn't
even give him a chance.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
>> NOORY: Well what
if he tricked you?
What if he said
he was a Democrat?
A lot of politicians
will trick you.
>> MARTENSON: And
then you fell in love.
>> AUDIENCE: And
then I fell in love?
Well, you know,
that, I don't know.
What would happen?
>> MARTENSON: Let's try that.
>> AUDIENCE: Mary,
what's her name?
Mary Matalin and James Carville.
How do they do it?
>> MARTENSON: Maria
Shriver and Schwarzenegger.
>> NOORY: All right.
So that's a deal-breaker.
What else?
>> AUDIENCE: Well, I've learned
that I don't want to date a pot
smoker.
>> NOORY: Well,
that is justified.
>> MARTENSON: Now is that a
challenge here in Boulder?
>> NOORY: Don't believe,
by the way, though,
I am a supporter in the
medicinal use of marijuana.
>> AUDIENCE: Oh, and
so am I. You know,
we just legalized it in
Colorado, and I, of course,
voted for it.
>> NOORY: Right.
>> AUDIENCE: But I've
dated some pot smokers.
>> NOORY: Well, I
think you have a right.
>> AUDIENCE: And you know,
you can't get them up off
the couch.
They're lacking in ambition.
They're-- the honey-do list just
keeps getting longer, you know.
>> NOORY: You have a right to
make that call for yourself.
>> MARTENSON: Right.
Absolutely.
>> NOORY: So I think
that's justified.
>> MARTENSON: Yes.
>> AUDIENCE: Yeah.
So that one is for me.
>> NOORY: All right.
What else?
>> AUDIENCE: What else?
>> NOORY: See, you
don't have that many.
What happened to this litany of
a list that you said you had?
>> AUDIENCE: Well, OK,
on the physical part.
>> MARTENSON: OK.
>> AUDIENCE: I said, my
expectations have gone down,
because as I'm looking
for age appropriate men,
and men in their late 50's early
60's are likely to be carrying
a few extra pounds.
I can deal with a
few extra pounds.
I could not deal with a gut.
And I couldn't deal with--
I could deal with bald.
I can deal-- I love silver hair.
But you know, it's
but glasses, or--
>> MARTENSON: Doesn't matter.
>> AUDIENCE: I'm not as-- I'm
not looking for a Brad Pitt
or George Clooney.
It, quite honestly, if
I were dating somebody
that good looking,
I'd be nervous
that other women would be
constantly hitting on them.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah .
>> AUDIENCE: And, here's the
weird one, I like short men.
So if other women are all
wanting the tall ones,
I'll take the short ones.
>> MARTENSON: That's right.
The average American
male is 5, 9.
And there's a lot of
great guys 5, 8-- 5,
7 that get past up, because
women, oh, I only date 6 feet
and up.
>> NOORY: How tall are you?
>> AUDIENCE: I'm 5.5 and 1/2.
>> NOORY: And in high
heels, you're about 6, 2.
>> AUDIENCE: God, I can't
wear high heels anymore.
>> NOORY: So most of those
aren't real deal-breakers.
>> MARTENSON: No, those are--
>> NOORY: The politics
one is strange.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
>> AUDIENCE: Really?
You think it's really strange?
>> NOORY: Are you-- has your
husband got the same political
persuasion.
>> MARTENSON: We have the same.
Yeah.
We're kind of in the
middle, you know.
We're just, we're
not really either.
We vote for the candidate,
not for the party.
And yeah.
And we don't talk about
politics that much.
>> NOORY: Show of
hands in the audience.
How many of you
would marry someone
who had a different
political persuasion as you?
Less than half.
>> MARTENSON: Quite a few.
>> NOORY: Less than half.
Well, maybe you're
not all that off.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah, it
never crossed my mind.
>> NOORY: It wouldn't both me.
>> MARTENSON: It
never crossed my mind.
As long as they're not radical,
in talking about it, and angry
and debating people.
I wouldn't like that.
>> AUDIENCE: Right.
Right.
Well, you know, I've just got
a lot of passion about it.
And like I said, I think it
reflects a lot of my values.
Like I'm very strong
for women's rights.
>> NOORY: There's
nothing wrong with that.
>> MARTENSON: Yeah.
Well, I think you sound
like a great catch.
>> AUDIENCE: Ooh!
>> NOORY: I was going to
say, would she be difficult
to place?
>> MARTENSON: No.
I think she would be a lot of
fun to work with, actually.
So will she--
>> NOORY: You do have
a strong personality.
And I bet that intimidates guys.
>> AUDIENCE: That's been
an issue over the years.
So and I've tried-- you
know, my new word is soften.
I'm really, constantly
trying to soften my opinions,
increase my tolerance level and
be a little more compromising.
I'm trying to work.
>> MARTENSON: Bring
out your femininity.
Even though you're feminine,
but your femininity in power.
>> AUDIENCE: Right, yeah.
>> NOORY: But it's not easy.
>> AUDIENCE: It's still not
easy, because you know--
>> NOORY: All right.
Well, let's hear it for Robin.
Robin, thank you.
You can go back to
your chair dear.
>> AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>> MARTENSON: Thank you.
>> NOORY: Good luck.
>> MARTENSON: Good luck.
It must be pretty difficult
sometimes to place people,
yet it's got to be very
satisfying when you do.
>> MARTENSON: Oh, yeah.
That's like I'll do a happy
dance around the room when,
you know, somebody calls.
Oh, we both liked
each other a lot.
Or we're in an exclusive
relationship, or engaged.
It's like, yay!
I celebrate.
>> NOORY: What
has been, for you,
the most bizarre moment
in your business?
>> MARTENSON: Oh, boy.
Gosh.
I mean, there's so--
>> NOORY: The craziest
thing that ever happened,
that ever came back to
you, in terms of feedback.
>> MARTENSON: Oh,
well, all right,
I think I can say
this on camera.
>> NOORY: I think you can.
>> MARTENSON: OK.
So I had-- the couple I matched
up, they were so cute together.
I mean, I thought they were
probably going to get married.
They were adorable,
they seemed so happy.
The guy calls me up one
day and he says, uh, Marla,
I'm not going to see,
let's call her Rebecca.
I'm not going to
see Rebecca anymore.
And I think I've got
to break up with her.
Why?
What's going on?
Oh, I just, I-- I don't
know if I can say this.
And I'm like,
well, just tell me.
And he goes, her
areolas are too big.
>> NOORY: No?
>> MARTENSON: And
I said, excuse me?
And he says, yeah, I
just can't, you know,
handle it when she
takes off her shirt.
>> NOORY: Her body
parts were too big.
>> MARTENSON: Well,
for his taste.
>> NOORY: I thought you
were going to say, well,
I won't even go there.
>> MARTENSON: Anyway, so
I mean, I was like, what?
So he broke up with her.
And that was--
>> NOORY: All right.
Well this is Marla Martenson.
>> MARTENSON: That
was beyond belief.
It was beyond belief, all right?
>> NOORY: Thanks, Marla.
[APPLAUSE]
Well, maybe some of Marla's
tips have helped you out,
in terms of building
your own relationship.
You know, the divorce rate
is hovering around 50%.
So you know what the odds are
when you're out there trying
to find that very
special person.
This is "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory, I'll
see you next time.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[THEME MUSIC]